This is "Billing Manager for Voip" - BMV 
I pronounce it "Beh Em Veh"  (Like BMW in German - to confuse the unsuspecting).
It is released under the GPL, so you can pronounce it how you like!
(c) 2004-2010, Andrew C Grillet
andrew@grillet.co.uk

This project is released under the GPL version 2. 

BMV 2 is a web site for managing GnuGk/Sqlbill systems used to record cost 
of VoIP services. It is a light-weight application constructed entirely from 
HTML and PHP5.

BMV Version 1 served the same purpose, but did not use Sqlbill. It was written 
in 2004, for use with a proprietly product that did the same job as Sqlbill. 

BMV 1.x used table formats derived from an even older product. The concept was 
valuable, but, with a user base of less than 5, supporting the billing tool 
in gnugk was proving impossible, and rather than continue using an archaic gnugk, 
I decided to support standard Gnugk/Sqlbill. This meant release under GPL was  
the most sensible proposition - I no longer need support the product alone. 

I run BMV on OpenBSD systems with Apache 1.3. The original version was developed
using FreeBSD using Apache 2.2, and at least one Windows instance has been seen 
to work!

The design objectives are:

. Simple construction methods mean it can rapidly develop
. Efficient use of resources means it can co-reside with the GnuGk for high performance.
. Web based PostgreSQL connection means it can run on a separate machine if required.
. Ease of use means it can be used by non-technical (accounts) personnel
. Support for quality control and diagnosis of problems
. The application cannot modify data, and is consequently secure

The fact that BMV cannot modify data means other tools are required to perform tasks like 
adding or altering the tariffs used, etc. (Upload of preprepared tariffs will be supported).

If anyone is planning to support modification of data, then they should first address the 
issue of user authentication. I use basic authentication.

History
2.0     Total rewrite to convert to Sqlbill schema.

